Add EIP: NFT Relationship Enhancement (#7085)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7085.md

## Motivation

The current standard for NFTs lacks the ability to establish relationships and attributes between tokens. This limitation makes it difficult for users to build more complex NFT ecosystems that require referring relationships and quantifiable attributes between tokens. For example, a user may create a derivative NFT that refers to the original NFT and sets a quantifiable attribute for the relationship between the two NFTs, but without a standardized way to establish relationships and attributes between NFTs, managing these ecosystems becomes increasingly difficult and inefficient.

Our proposed EIP aims to address this issue by extending the [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standards to include the ability to establish referring relationships and quantifiable attributes between NFTs. With this enhancement, users can create a graph of NFTs and set quantifiable attributes for each NFT, providing a powerful tool for managing and quantifying relationships between NFTs.

> By enabling users to build more complex NFT ecosystems, our proposed EIP will enhance the NFT ecosystem and open up new possibilities for NFT use cases. However, it's important to consider potential drawbacks such as increased complexity and gas cost, and carefully design rules to mitigate these issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By enabling users to build more complex NFT ecosystems, this proposal will enhance the NFT ecosystem and open up new possibilities for NFT use cases. However, it's important to consider potential drawbacks such as increased complexity and gas cost, and carefully design rules to mitigate these issues.
```

> Our proposed EIP builds upon the existing Ethereum ecosystem and extends the standard for NFTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Specification

> This EIP proposes the addition of two new functions to the [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standard: `setRelationship` and `setAttribute`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP proposes the addition of two new functions to the [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standards: `setRelationship` and `setAttribute`.
```

### `setRelationship`

The `setRelationship` function establishes a referring relationship between two NFTs. It takes the following parameters:

```solidity
function setRelationship(uint256 _originalID, uint256 _derivativeID, uint256 _attribute) external;
```

- `_originalID`: the ID of the original NFT
- `_derivativeID`: the ID of the derivative NFT that refers to the original NFT
- `_attribute`: the quantifiable attribute for this relationship, which defaults to 1 if not specified

When called, this function establishes a referring relationship between the two NFTs.

### `setAttribute`

The `setAttribute` function sets a quantifiable attribute for an NFT. It takes the following parameters:

```solidity
function setAttribute(uint256 _id, string calldata _name, uint256 _value) external;
```

- `_id`: the ID of the NFT
- `_name`: the name of the attribute to be set
- `_value`: the value of the attribute to be set

When called, this function sets a quantifiable attribute for the NFT.

> ### Backward Compatibility
> 
> This EIP is designed to be fully backward-compatible with existing [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md)  contracts and tokens. Existing NFT contracts and tokens will continue to function as they did before, and the new `setRelationship` and `setAttribute` functions will only be available to contracts that explicitly implement this EIP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Gas Considerations
> 
> To mitigate potential issues with excessive complexity and gas cost, the `setRelationship` function only allows for one referring relationship to be established between two NFTs, and the `setAttribute` function only allows for one attribute to be set at a time.

Reviewer: This belongs in Rationale.

```suggestion
```

## Rationale

> The [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standard has been widely adopted for the creation of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and has proven to be a versatile and flexible standard. However, there is currently no way to establish relationships between NFTs or to set quantifiable attributes for those relationships. This limits the potential use cases for NFTs, as it makes it difficult to track ownership history, establish provenance, and create interactive games and experiences.
> 
> The motivation behind proposing this EIP is to provide a way for NFT creators and users to establish relationships between NFTs and set quantifiable attributes for those relationships. This will enable more complex and interesting use cases for NFTs, such as tracking ownership history, establishing provenance, and creating interactive games and experiences.

Reviewer: These bits belong in your Motivation (and I think are adequately covered there already.)

```suggestion
```

In developing this EIP, some key design decisions were made. For example, we limited the complexity of the relationship graph that can be created by only allowing for one referring relationship between two NFTs. This helps to ensure that the graph remains manageable and does not become too complex to be useful. Additionally, we kept the gas cost of setting attributes to a minimum by only allowing for one attribute to be set at a time.

While there are currently no similar features in other blockchain languages or standards, we drew inspiration from the concept of Graph Theory, which is a branch of mathematics that studies the relationships between objects. By adding the ability to establish relationships between NFTs and set quantifiable attributes for those relationships, we believe that the extended NFT standard will become even more useful and versatile for NFT creators and users.

## Backwards Compatibility

> No backward compatibility issues found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP is designed to be fully backward-compatible with existing [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) contracts and tokens. Existing NFT contracts and tokens will continue to function as they did before, and the new `setRelationship` and `setAttribute` functions will only be available to contracts that explicitly implement this EIP.
```

> ## Test Cases
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Reference Implementation

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract NFTGraph {
    
    mapping(uint256 => mapping(uint256 => uint256)) public relationship;
    mapping(uint256 => mapping(bytes32 => bytes32)) public attributes;

    function setRelationship(uint256 originalNFT, uint256 derivativeNFT, uint256 relationshipValue) public {
        require(originalNFT != derivativeNFT, "Original and derivative NFTs must be different");
        relationship[originalNFT][derivativeNFT] = relationshipValue;
    }
    
    function setAttribute(uint256 nft, bytes32 attributeName, bytes32 attributeValue) public {
        attributes[nft][attributeName] = attributeValue;
    }
    
}
```

> This example contract defines a NFTGraph contract that has a mapping called relationship that stores the relationships between original NFTs and derivative NFTs. The setRelationship function allows for the setting of the relationship value between two NFTs. The setAttribute function allows for the setting of attributes for NFTs using a mapping called attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example contract defines a `NFTGraph` contract that has a mapping called relationship that stores the relationships between original NFTs and derivative NFTs. The `setRelationship` function allows for the setting of the relationship value between two NFTs. The `setAttribute` function allows for the setting of attributes for NFTs using a mapping called attributes.
```
